In this video, I'm going to go ahead and
download and install the JDK which is
the Java development kit which contains
the software to be able to run programs
in this course. Now if you're running on
a Mac or a Linux machine, you want to
check out a specific video that we've
created in this section of the course
for those operating systems, the reason
is the steps are slightly different for
each platform. So this is the windows
video. So, if you are on Windows going to
start by going to java.oracle.com
it'll bring you to a page from Oracle
which are now the owners of the Java
product. When I come over here and the
technologies and click on Java SE and
once that page loads, come over here and
click on downloads and finally once we
get to that page, there's this little
icon here this little image and it
will say Java platform JDK and a number
here. Now it's highly likely that this
number will change in the future because
Oracle release at regular intervals
updates to the Java development kit,
so if you're going to later number then
that's fine, just click on the
graphic there and that will take
you to the download page, when we can
actually download the software. Now what
we need to do is determine whether your
computer is of 32 or is running a 32 or
64-bit version of Windows, the reason for
that is that there's two versions of the
JDK available, you can see here windows
x86 and windows x64 so what that means is
windows x86 is for computers running
32-bit version of Windows and Windows x64
is for 64-bit version of Windows, so to
find out which version you're running on
your computer, you basically want to get
into control panel or if I'm Windows 10
it's settings, so I'm going to come down
here, click on the start icon, click on
settings, once you get into your control
panel or in my case windows settings
click on system and then there's an
option down here for about that's
certainly what it is for Windows 10,
it might be slightly different for older
versions of Windows, but there's an
option on all versions of Windows to
tell you what version of Windows you're
running and here on the system type,
you can see that it's a 64-bit operating
system so ignore
this part to the right where it says x64
based processor, because it is possible
confusingly to have a 64-bit processor
but to be running a 32-bit version of
the Windows operating system. So the bit
the important bit here is to the left
when it's a 64-bit operating system that
tells me there that I'm running a 64-bit
version of the operating system and I
can now choose my download the only
other option that would come up would be
a 32-bit version and once you know that,
you can close that screen down you come
back to the page that we loaded
previously and choose the relevant
version. Now before that allow you to download,
you need to click on accept license
agreement this little radio button that
you saw me click and now I need to
choose the version, so a 32-bit version
that would be the windows x86 version in
my case 64-bit, 64-bit version or
64-bit edition of Windows, so I'm going
to click on that little option there to
me, so you'll choose which other one is
appropriate and I'm going to click on
run to let Windows run this,
so that we can go ahead and install it.
So I'll just fast-forward this while it
continues and completes the download.
Okay so I've gone ahead and the download
is finished and it started because I
selected it to run now if you didn't
select run, you might have to double
click the downloaded program to start it
but in any event it should start,
I'm going to close in the browser because we
no longer need it and you get to a
process like this an installation
process that we can actually go through.
So I can come through here now, I can
click on next now you may actually need
to know this later in the course, so just
keep to the back your mind or perhaps
write down the area or the path that
this software has been installed in,
you can see in my case it's going to be
installed in c colon backslash Program
Files backslash Java and then this
number will relate to the version that
you've downloaded, the important part is
Program Files slash Java so you may need
may or may not need that later in the
course but have a make a mental note
of that or write it down so you know.
Click on next, we don't need to change
any options there, we'll let it do its
thing and install, next thing it does is install JDK
but it also wants to install the JRE,
JRE stands for Java Runtime Edition and
you do need to have both things on your
computer in order to be able to use
Java, so we're going to just click on
next, noting that that directory the C
colon backslash program files slash Java
so it's actually putting it in a
different sub folder and again you may
need that later in the course, click on
next and let it do its thing again.
Alright, so at this point so you can
see that it's come up and said the java
SE development kit 8 update and then the
number has been successfully installed,
so we're actually done so and click on
close. I'm going to finish the video here
let's move on to the next one.